
Title:     Vispy, A Modern and Interactive Scientific Visualization
Authors:   Luke Campagnola, Almar Klein, Cyrille Rossant, Nicolas Rougier 
Main Site: https://github.com/vispy/vispy/wiki

----

Whereas the availability of data increases exponentially fast, the current
visualization tools available today in Python do not scale gracefully to big
data. The major plotting library in Python is Matplotlib and is more focused on
the generation of static publication-ready figures than interactive
visualization. These are really two different, and nearly orthogonal goals. For
the former, high display quality is the major objective, whereas speed and
reactivity is much more important for the latter. Matplotlib can be used for
interactive visualization, but it has not been primarily designed for
this. Consequently, the frame rate tends to be low on medium-size data sets,
and million-points data sets can not be decently visualized in this way.

Our goal is thus to create the foundations for the *next-generation*
interactive visualization software in Python in close connection with
matplotlib and upcoming tools such as bokeh. Having a one-stop software for
doing all this is, admittedly, a quite difficult and ambitious goal that could
take years. But we think it is a reasonable objective, and it can be achieved
through multiple successive steps.

Each of us have experience in visualization and OpenGL through various projects
(PyQTGraph, Galry, VisVis, Glumpy GL-Agg, etc.) and we decided to join efforts
to offer the community a unified framework which will be hopefully as popular
as Matplotlib, but for fast interactive visualization of large data sets.  Our
primary goal is not to make publication quality plots, even if we expect
reasonable quality using modern techniques, but rather to get a sense of the
data by visualizing it interactively. The nature of the data can be anything:
real-time signals, maps, high-dimensional points, surfaces, volumes, images,
textures, etc.

The project is in early stages of development and a handful of experiments are
available through the github account of the project (github.com/vispy/vispy).
We feel it is important for us to introduce this project in order to gather
feedback, comments, requests, and ideas from the scientific community.

The group is of course open to any people interested in the project and a
one-day sprint session will take place after the conference.
